Okay, recording. The day is Thursday the 13th of April. The time is 1438. Mike Nicholson
interviewing Susan Nicholson for the Mencap Heritage Project. Present also with us are
Charlotte Edmonds and Joanne Nash. Okay, Susan, where would you like to start?
Hi, I'm Sue Nicholson. I'm chair of Chepstow Mencap. I've been chair since 2011.
So quite a long time then?
Yes, 11 years I believe it. No, 12 years this year it will be coming up.
But am I right in saying that your involvement with Chepstow Mencap begun a lot sooner than 2011?
Yes. So I was there at the beginning 50 years ago because my mother, Heather Parrott, is actually the founder of Chepstow Mencap.
And we're celebrating our 51st year this year. So I became chair in 2011 and I had the fabulous opportunity
with my trustee board to look at a building that came up for sale called the Board School.
Our building that we were actually in at the time had outgrown the service that we provided.
It was a converted pub over three floors and the lift shafts were in the chimneys of that old pub.
And of course from 1998 up to the present day wheelchairs have got that much bigger so it was no longer fit for purpose.
People with mobility issues had difficulty getting to all the floors and for personal care we had to go outside the building down a ramp to our changing facilities.
So the Board School came up for sale in 2013. The Board came along, had a look at it, we had the funds to purchase it but we didn't have many other funds apart from that.
We felt it was a good buy so we took the chance and the purchase went through in August that year.
In my naivety I thought a few grand, a lick of paint, it will be alright.
And I thought again in my naivety we'd apply for something like the lottery funding and that would be okay.
The reality is it's taken us ten years in the making but in that time we've done loads of fundraising.
We were given a lottery grant on the second application which was incredible and that gave us half a million pounds which was our starting point.
Wow, so that's quite a lot of money then.
It was, the total bill though was 1.4 million and fair play to all the grant holders who gave us the funds.
But a big shout out to Chepstow Community because everyone rallied together and everyone contributed to the project which we originally named Vision 2020.
But as we all know Covid came along in 2020 which kind of scuppered and delayed the plans.
But actually we got through it and we're now in this building as beautiful as it is.
So you said you were based at the Barclay before coming here to the board school.
Yes.
The Barclays are building in Chepstow.
It's in the centre of Chepstow. It was a pub when we bought it.
We got planning permission to operate as a day centre and they actually converted and opened in 1998 which is 25 years ago.